---
layout: page
title: "Build"
category: doc
date: 2015-08-30 22:08:23
order: 3
---

### Creating a project

The best way to begin is by creating a project---that is, a folder, with subfolders for saved interrogations, images, dictionaries and data.

Once you have created a new project, you can use `Add corpus` to copy your corpus into the project directory.

Much of the power of `corpkit` is its ability to handle *structured corpora*---that is, folders containing subfolders, representing points in time, speaker names, topics, etc. Ideally, the corpora you add to your project have some kind of structure, but if not, the tool will still work.

Once you have added a corpus to the project, it is automatically selected. If you want to add another corpus, or select a previously added corpus, you can.

### Editing your data

With a corpus selected, you can view and edit the text files in your collection. You can make last-minute changes to the corpus now: after the texts are parsed, they are very difficult to change.

> This interface is not designed for a serious amount of editing work. For large amounts of editing, use a good text editor, like [*Sublime Text*](http://www.sublimetext.com) or [*TextWrangler*](www.barebones.com/products/textwrangler).

### Parsing

Parsing requires the one-time installation of a parser, as well as some things needed to run the parser. Follow the prompts to download and install it. If you want to remove it at any stage, it can be found in your `home` directory as `corenlp`.

Once texts are parsed, there is one more feature you might like to use. If you use `Select corpus in project` to select a corpus of parsed texts, rather than editing the file contents, you can look at visualisations of the parse trees. This can be helpful in learning how to write a Tregex query (see below).

> Some features of `corpkit` work without parsing, but parsing is the best way to find complex and interesting things in your data.

You can then choose to parse your files, or simply tokenise them. Why not do both?

#### Speaker segmentation

If you select the speaker segmentation option, parsing will also involve labelling the speaker ID of each sentence.

For this option to work, each text file in your corpus must be formatted with speaker names in capital letters (with no spaces), followed by a colon, like so:

    `JOHN: Why did they change the signs above all the bins?
    SPEAKER23: I know why. But I'm not telling.`
    ...

This will allow you to restrict your interrogations and concordances to specific interlocutors.

> It's worth noting that Speaker IDs don't *technically* need to denote speakers: timestamps or dates could be formatted in the same way, allowing you to restrict interrogations temporally.


